man/docker-network-inspect.1.md, before:

% DOCKER(1) Docker User Manuals
% Docker Community
% OCT 2015
# NAME
docker-network-inspect - inspect a network

# SYNOPSIS
**docker network inspect**
[**--help**]
NETWORK [NETWORK...]

# DESCRIPTION

Returns information about one or more networks. By default, this command renders all results in a JSON object. For example, if you connect two containers to a network:

```bash
$ sudo docker run -itd --name=container1 busybox
f2870c98fd504370fb86e59f32cd0753b1ac9b69b7d80566ffc7192a82b3ed27

$ sudo docker run -itd --name=container2 busybox
bda12f8922785d1f160be70736f26c1e331ab8aaf8ed8d56728508f2e2fd4727
```

The `network inspect` command shows the containers, by id, in its results.

```bash
$ sudo docker network inspect bridge
[
    {
        "Name": "bridge",
        "Id": "b2b1a2cba717161d984383fd68218cf70bbbd17d328496885f7c921333228b0f",
        "Scope": "local",
        "Driver": "bridge",
        "IPAM": {
            "Driver": "default",
            "Config": [
                {
                    "Subnet": "172.17.42.1/16",
                    "Gateway": "172.17.42.1"
                }
            ]
        },
        "Containers": {
            "bda12f8922785d1f160be70736f26c1e331ab8aaf8ed8d56728508f2e2fd4727": {
                "Name": "container2",
                "EndpointID": "0aebb8fcd2b282abe1365979536f21ee4ceaf3ed56177c628eae9f706e00e019",
                "MacAddress": "02:42:ac:11:00:02",
                "IPv4Address": "172.17.0.2/16",
                "IPv6Address": ""
            },
            "f2870c98fd504370fb86e59f32cd0753b1ac9b69b7d80566ffc7192a82b3ed27": {
                "Name": "container1",
                "EndpointID": "a00676d9c91a96bbe5bcfb34f705387a33d7cc365bac1a29e4e9728df92d10ad",
                "MacAddress": "02:42:ac:11:00:01",
                "IPv4Address": "172.17.0.1/16",
                "IPv6Address": ""
            }
        },
        "Options": {
            "com.docker.network.bridge.default_bridge": "true",
            "com.docker.network.bridge.enable_icc": "true",
            "com.docker.network.bridge.enable_ip_masquerade": "true",
            "com.docker.network.bridge.host_binding_ipv4": "0.0.0.0",
            "com.docker.network.bridge.name": "docker0",
            "com.docker.network.driver.mtu": "1500"
        }
    }
]
```

# OPTIONS

**--help**
  Print usage statement

# HISTORY
OCT 2015, created by Mary Anthony <mary@docker.com>

Commit message:

Add format flag to network inspect
…for consistency as docker inspect and docker volume inspect supports it too

Signed-off-by: Vincent Demeester <vincent@sbr.pm>

man/docker-network-inspect.1.md, after:

% DOCKER(1) Docker User Manuals
% Docker Community
% OCT 2015
# NAME
docker-network-inspect - inspect a network

# SYNOPSIS
**docker network inspect**
[**-f**|**--format**[=*FORMAT*]]
[**--help**]
NETWORK [NETWORK...]

# DESCRIPTION

Returns information about one or more networks. By default, this command renders all results in a JSON object. For example, if you connect two containers to a network:

```bash
$ sudo docker run -itd --name=container1 busybox
f2870c98fd504370fb86e59f32cd0753b1ac9b69b7d80566ffc7192a82b3ed27

$ sudo docker run -itd --name=container2 busybox
bda12f8922785d1f160be70736f26c1e331ab8aaf8ed8d56728508f2e2fd4727
```

The `network inspect` command shows the containers, by id, in its
results. You can specify an alternate format to execute a given
template for each result. Go's
[text/template](http://golang.org/pkg/text/template/) package
describes all the details of the format.

```bash
$ sudo docker network inspect bridge
[
    {
        "Name": "bridge",
        "Id": "b2b1a2cba717161d984383fd68218cf70bbbd17d328496885f7c921333228b0f",
        "Scope": "local",
        "Driver": "bridge",
        "IPAM": {
            "Driver": "default",
            "Config": [
                {
                    "Subnet": "172.17.42.1/16",
                    "Gateway": "172.17.42.1"
                }
            ]
        },
        "Containers": {
            "bda12f8922785d1f160be70736f26c1e331ab8aaf8ed8d56728508f2e2fd4727": {
                "Name": "container2",
                "EndpointID": "0aebb8fcd2b282abe1365979536f21ee4ceaf3ed56177c628eae9f706e00e019",
                "MacAddress": "02:42:ac:11:00:02",
                "IPv4Address": "172.17.0.2/16",
                "IPv6Address": ""
            },
            "f2870c98fd504370fb86e59f32cd0753b1ac9b69b7d80566ffc7192a82b3ed27": {
                "Name": "container1",
                "EndpointID": "a00676d9c91a96bbe5bcfb34f705387a33d7cc365bac1a29e4e9728df92d10ad",
                "MacAddress": "02:42:ac:11:00:01",
                "IPv4Address": "172.17.0.1/16",
                "IPv6Address": ""
            }
        },
        "Options": {
            "com.docker.network.bridge.default_bridge": "true",
            "com.docker.network.bridge.enable_icc": "true",
            "com.docker.network.bridge.enable_ip_masquerade": "true",
            "com.docker.network.bridge.host_binding_ipv4": "0.0.0.0",
            "com.docker.network.bridge.name": "docker0",
            "com.docker.network.driver.mtu": "1500"
        }
    }
]
```

# OPTIONS
**-f**, **--format**=""
  Format the output using the given go template.

**--help**
  Print usage statement

# HISTORY
OCT 2015, created by Mary Anthony <mary@docker.com>
