man/docker-logs.1.md, before:

% DOCKER(1) Docker User Manuals
% Docker Community
% JUNE 2014
# NAME
docker-logs - Fetch the logs of a container

# SYNOPSIS
**docker logs**
[**-f**|**--follow**]
[**--help**]
[**--since**[=*SINCE*]]
[**-t**|**--timestamps**]
[**--tail**[=*"all"*]]
CONTAINER

# DESCRIPTION
The **docker logs** command batch-retrieves whatever logs are present for
a container at the time of execution. This does not guarantee execution
order when combined with a docker run (i.e., your run may not have generated
any logs at the time you execute docker logs).

The **docker logs --follow** command combines commands **docker logs** and
**docker attach**. It will first return all logs from the beginning and
then continue streaming new output from the container’s stdout and stderr.

**Warning**: This command works only for the **json-file** or **journald**
logging drivers.

# OPTIONS
**--help**
  Print usage statement

**-f**, **--follow**=*true*|*false*
   Follow log output. The default is *false*.

**--since**=""
   Show logs since timestamp

**-t**, **--timestamps**=*true*|*false*
   Show timestamps. The default is *false*.

**--tail**="*all*"
   Output the specified number of lines at the end of logs (defaults to all logs)

The `--since` option can be Unix timestamps, date formatted timestamps, or Go
duration strings (e.g. `10m`, `1h30m`) computed relative to the client machine’s
time. Supported formats for date formatted time stamps include RFC3339Nano,
RFC3339, `2006-01-02T15:04:05`, `2006-01-02T15:04:05.999999999`,
`2006-01-02Z07:00`, and `2006-01-02`. The local timezone on the client will be
used if you do not provide either a `Z` or a `+-00:00` timezone offset at the
end of the timestamp.  When providing Unix timestamps enter
seconds[.nanoseconds], where seconds is the number of seconds that have elapsed
since January 1, 1970 (midnight UTC/GMT), not counting leap  seconds (aka Unix
epoch or Unix time), and the optional .nanoseconds field is a fraction of a
second no more than nine digits long. You can combine the `--since` option with
either or both of the `--follow` or `--tail` options.

# HISTORY
April 2014, Originally compiled by William Henry (whenry at redhat dot com)
based on docker.com source material and internal work.
June 2014, updated by Sven Dowideit <SvenDowideit@home.org.au>
July 2014, updated by Sven Dowideit <SvenDowideit@home.org.au>
April 2015, updated by Ahmet Alp Balkan <ahmetalpbalkan@gmail.com>
October 2015, updated by Mike Brown <mikebrow@gmail.com>

Commit message:

Add support for reading logs extra attrs
The jsonlog logger currently allows specifying envs and labels that
should be propagated to the log message, however there has been no way
to read that back.

This adds a new API option to enable inserting these attrs back to the
log reader.

With timestamps, this looks like so:
```
92016-04-08T15:28:09.835913720Z foo=bar,hello=world hello
```

The extra attrs are comma separated before the log message but after
timestamps.

Without timestaps it looks like so:
```
foo=bar,hello=world hello
```

Signed-off-by: Brian Goff <cpuguy83@gmail.com>

man/docker-logs.1.md, after:

% DOCKER(1) Docker User Manuals
% Docker Community
% JUNE 2014
# NAME
docker-logs - Fetch the logs of a container

# SYNOPSIS
**docker logs**
[**-f**|**--follow**]
[**--help**]
[**--since**[=*SINCE*]]
[**-t**|**--timestamps**]
[**--tail**[=*"all"*]]
CONTAINER

# DESCRIPTION
The **docker logs** command batch-retrieves whatever logs are present for
a container at the time of execution. This does not guarantee execution
order when combined with a docker run (i.e., your run may not have generated
any logs at the time you execute docker logs).

The **docker logs --follow** command combines commands **docker logs** and
**docker attach**. It will first return all logs from the beginning and
then continue streaming new output from the container’s stdout and stderr.

**Warning**: This command works only for the **json-file** or **journald**
logging drivers.

# OPTIONS
**--help**
  Print usage statement

**--details**=*true*|*false*
   Show extra details provided to logs

**-f**, **--follow**=*true*|*false*
   Follow log output. The default is *false*.

**--since**=""
   Show logs since timestamp

**-t**, **--timestamps**=*true*|*false*
   Show timestamps. The default is *false*.

**--tail**="*all*"
   Output the specified number of lines at the end of logs (defaults to all logs)

The `--since` option can be Unix timestamps, date formatted timestamps, or Go
duration strings (e.g. `10m`, `1h30m`) computed relative to the client machine’s
time. Supported formats for date formatted time stamps include RFC3339Nano,
RFC3339, `2006-01-02T15:04:05`, `2006-01-02T15:04:05.999999999`,
`2006-01-02Z07:00`, and `2006-01-02`. The local timezone on the client will be
used if you do not provide either a `Z` or a `+-00:00` timezone offset at the
end of the timestamp.  When providing Unix timestamps enter
seconds[.nanoseconds], where seconds is the number of seconds that have elapsed
since January 1, 1970 (midnight UTC/GMT), not counting leap  seconds (aka Unix
epoch or Unix time), and the optional .nanoseconds field is a fraction of a
second no more than nine digits long. You can combine the `--since` option with
either or both of the `--follow` or `--tail` options.

The `docker logs --details` command will add on extra attributes, such as
environment variables and labels, provided to `--log-opt` when creating the
container.

# HISTORY
April 2014, Originally compiled by William Henry (whenry at redhat dot com)
based on docker.com source material and internal work.
June 2014, updated by Sven Dowideit <SvenDowideit@home.org.au>
July 2014, updated by Sven Dowideit <SvenDowideit@home.org.au>
April 2015, updated by Ahmet Alp Balkan <ahmetalpbalkan@gmail.com>
October 2015, updated by Mike Brown <mikebrow@gmail.com>
