man/docker-events.1.md, before:

% DOCKER(1) Docker User Manuals
% Docker Community
% JUNE 2014
# NAME
docker-events - Get real time events from the server

# SYNOPSIS
**docker events**
[**--help**]
[**-f**|**--filter**[=*[]*]]
[**--since**[=*SINCE*]]
[**--until**[=*UNTIL*]]


# DESCRIPTION
Get event information from the Docker daemon. Information can include historical
information and real-time information.

Docker containers will report the following events:

    attach, commit, copy, create, destroy, die, exec_create, exec_start, export, kill, oom, pause, rename, resize, restart, start, stop, top, unpause

and Docker images will report:

    delete, import, pull, push, tag, untag

# OPTIONS
**--help**
  Print usage statement

**-f**, **--filter**=[]
   Provide filter values (i.e., 'event=stop')

**--since**=""
   Show all events created since timestamp

**--until**=""
   Stream events until this timestamp

You can specify `--since` and `--until` parameters as an RFC 3339 date,
a UNIX timestamp, or a Go duration string (e.g. `1m30s`, `3h`). Docker computes
the date relative to the client machine’s time.

# EXAMPLES

## Listening for Docker events

After running docker events a container 786d698004576 is started and stopped
(The container name has been shortened in the output below):

    # docker events
    2015-01-28T20:21:31.000000000-08:00 59211849bc10: (from whenry/testimage:latest) start
    2015-01-28T20:21:31.000000000-08:00 59211849bc10: (from whenry/testimage:latest) die
    2015-01-28T20:21:32.000000000-08:00 59211849bc10: (from whenry/testimage:latest) stop

## Listening for events since a given date
Again the output container IDs have been shortened for the purposes of this document:

    # docker events --since '2015-01-28'
    2015-01-28T20:25:38.000000000-08:00 c21f6c22ba27: (from whenry/testimage:latest) create
    2015-01-28T20:25:38.000000000-08:00 c21f6c22ba27: (from whenry/testimage:latest) start
    2015-01-28T20:25:39.000000000-08:00 c21f6c22ba27: (from whenry/testimage:latest) create
    2015-01-28T20:25:39.000000000-08:00 c21f6c22ba27: (from whenry/testimage:latest) start
    2015-01-28T20:25:40.000000000-08:00 c21f6c22ba27: (from whenry/testimage:latest) die
    2015-01-28T20:25:42.000000000-08:00 c21f6c22ba27: (from whenry/testimage:latest) stop
    2015-01-28T20:25:45.000000000-08:00 c21f6c22ba27: (from whenry/testimage:latest) start
    2015-01-28T20:25:45.000000000-08:00 c21f6c22ba27: (from whenry/testimage:latest) die
    2015-01-28T20:25:46.000000000-08:00 c21f6c22ba27: (from whenry/testimage:latest) stop

The following example outputs all events that were generated in the last 3 minutes,
relative to the current time on the client machine:

    # docker events --since '3m'
    2015-05-12T11:51:30.999999999Z07:00 4386fb97867d: (from ubuntu-1:14.04) die
    2015-05-12T15:52:12.999999999Z07:00 4 4386fb97867d: (from ubuntu-1:14.04) stop
    2015-05-12T15:53:45.999999999Z07:00  7805c1d35632: (from redis:2.8) die
    2015-05-12T15:54:03.999999999Z07:00  7805c1d35632: (from redis:2.8) stop

If you do not provide the --since option, the command returns only new and/or
live events.

# HISTORY
April 2014, Originally compiled by William Henry (whenry at redhat dot com)
based on docker.com source material and internal work.
June 2014, updated by Sven Dowideit <SvenDowideit@home.org.au>
June 2015, updated by Brian Goff <cpuguy83@gmail.com>

Commit message:

modifying docker --since and --until to support nanoseconds and time zones
Signed-off-by: Mike Brown <brownwm@us.ibm.com>

man/docker-events.1.md, after:

% DOCKER(1) Docker User Manuals
% Docker Community
% JUNE 2014
# NAME
docker-events - Get real time events from the server

# SYNOPSIS
**docker events**
[**--help**]
[**-f**|**--filter**[=*[]*]]
[**--since**[=*SINCE*]]
[**--until**[=*UNTIL*]]


# DESCRIPTION
Get event information from the Docker daemon. Information can include historical
information and real-time information.

Docker containers will report the following events:

    attach, commit, copy, create, destroy, die, exec_create, exec_start, export, kill, oom, pause, rename, resize, restart, start, stop, top, unpause

and Docker images will report:

    delete, import, pull, push, tag, untag

# OPTIONS
**--help**
  Print usage statement

**-f**, **--filter**=[]
   Provide filter values (i.e., 'event=stop')

**--since**=""
   Show all events created since timestamp

**--until**=""
   Stream events until this timestamp

The `--since` and `--until` parameters can be Unix timestamps, date formated
timestamps, or Go duration strings (e.g. `10m`, `1h30m`) computed
relative to the client machine’s time. If you do not provide the --since option,
the command returns only new and/or live events.  Supported formats for date
formated time stamps include RFC3339Nano, RFC3339, `2006-01-02T15:04:05`,
`2006-01-02T15:04:05.999999999`, `2006-01-02Z07:00`, and `2006-01-02`. The local
timezone on the client will be used if you do not provide either a `Z` or a
`+-00:00` timezone offset at the end of the timestamp.  When providing Unix
timestamps enter seconds[.nanoseconds], where seconds is the number of seconds
that have elapsed since January 1, 1970 (midnight UTC/GMT), not counting leap
seconds (aka Unix epoch or Unix time), and the optional .nanoseconds field is a
fraction of a second no more than nine digits long.
   
# EXAMPLES

## Listening for Docker events

After running docker events a container 786d698004576 is started and stopped
(The container name has been shortened in the output below):

    # docker events
    2015-01-28T20:21:31.000000000-08:00 59211849bc10: (from whenry/testimage:latest) start
    2015-01-28T20:21:31.000000000-08:00 59211849bc10: (from whenry/testimage:latest) die
    2015-01-28T20:21:32.000000000-08:00 59211849bc10: (from whenry/testimage:latest) stop

## Listening for events since a given date
Again the output container IDs have been shortened for the purposes of this document:

    # docker events --since '2015-01-28'
    2015-01-28T20:25:38.000000000-08:00 c21f6c22ba27: (from whenry/testimage:latest) create
    2015-01-28T20:25:38.000000000-08:00 c21f6c22ba27: (from whenry/testimage:latest) start
    2015-01-28T20:25:39.000000000-08:00 c21f6c22ba27: (from whenry/testimage:latest) create
    2015-01-28T20:25:39.000000000-08:00 c21f6c22ba27: (from whenry/testimage:latest) start
    2015-01-28T20:25:40.000000000-08:00 c21f6c22ba27: (from whenry/testimage:latest) die
    2015-01-28T20:25:42.000000000-08:00 c21f6c22ba27: (from whenry/testimage:latest) stop
    2015-01-28T20:25:45.000000000-08:00 c21f6c22ba27: (from whenry/testimage:latest) start
    2015-01-28T20:25:45.000000000-08:00 c21f6c22ba27: (from whenry/testimage:latest) die
    2015-01-28T20:25:46.000000000-08:00 c21f6c22ba27: (from whenry/testimage:latest) stop

The following example outputs all events that were generated in the last 3 minutes,
relative to the current time on the client machine:

    # docker events --since '3m'
    2015-05-12T11:51:30.999999999Z07:00  4386fb97867d: (from ubuntu-1:14.04) die
    2015-05-12T15:52:12.999999999Z07:00  4386fb97867d: (from ubuntu-1:14.04) stop
    2015-05-12T15:53:45.999999999Z07:00  7805c1d35632: (from redis:2.8) die
    2015-05-12T15:54:03.999999999Z07:00  7805c1d35632: (from redis:2.8) stop

If you do not provide the --since option, the command returns only new and/or
live events.

# HISTORY
April 2014, Originally compiled by William Henry (whenry at redhat dot com)
based on docker.com source material and internal work.
June 2014, updated by Sven Dowideit <SvenDowideit@home.org.au>
June 2015, updated by Brian Goff <cpuguy83@gmail.com>
October 2015, updated by Mike Brown <mikebrow@gmail.com>
