man/docker-push.1.md, before:

% DOCKER(1) Docker User Manuals
% Docker Community
% JUNE 2014
# NAME
docker-push - Push an image or a repository to a registry

# SYNOPSIS
**docker push**
[**--help**]
NAME[:TAG] | [REGISTRY_HOST[:REGISTRY_PORT]/]NAME[:TAG]

# DESCRIPTION

This command pushes an image or a repository to a registry. If you do not
specify a `REGISTRY_HOST`, the command uses Docker's public registry located at
`registry-1.docker.io` by default. 

# OPTIONS
**--help**
  Print usage statement

# EXAMPLES

# Pushing a new image to a registry

First save the new image by finding the container ID (using **docker ps**)
and then committing it to a new image name.  Note that only a-z0-9-_. are
allowed when naming images:

    # docker commit c16378f943fe rhel-httpd

Now, push the image to the registry using the image ID. In this example the
registry is on host named `registry-host` and listening on port `5000`. To do
this, tag the image with the host name or IP address, and the port of the
registry:

    # docker tag rhel-httpd registry-host:5000/myadmin/rhel-httpd
    # docker push registry-host:5000/myadmin/rhel-httpd

Check that this worked by running:

    # docker images

You should see both `rhel-httpd` and `registry-host:5000/myadmin/rhel-httpd`
listed.

Registry credentials are managed by **docker-login(1)**.

# HISTORY
April 2014, Originally compiled by William Henry (whenry at redhat dot com)
based on docker.com source material and internal work.
June 2014, updated by Sven Dowideit <SvenDowideit@home.org.au>
April 2015, updated by Mary Anthony for v2 <mary@docker.com>
June 2015, updated by Sally O'Malley <somalley@redhat.com>

Commit message:

Document valid chars in image name and tag
- Add link to valid image name and tag formats in referenced files
- Per review comments, updated docs to remove reference to `USERNAME` and
`REGISTRYHOST`.
- Per review comment, removed links from man page.
- Per review comment, added and updated examples on `docker tag`

Signed-off-by: Subhajit Ghosh <isubuz.g@gmail.com>

man/docker-push.1.md, after:

% DOCKER(1) Docker User Manuals
% Docker Community
% JUNE 2014
# NAME
docker-push - Push an image or a repository to a registry

# SYNOPSIS
**docker push**
[**--help**]
NAME[:TAG] | [REGISTRY_HOST[:REGISTRY_PORT]/]NAME[:TAG]

# DESCRIPTION

This command pushes an image or a repository to a registry. If you do not
specify a `REGISTRY_HOST`, the command uses Docker's public registry located at
`registry-1.docker.io` by default. Refer to **docker-tag(1)** for more 
information about valid image and tag names.

# OPTIONS
**--help**
  Print usage statement

# EXAMPLES

# Pushing a new image to a registry

First save the new image by finding the container ID (using **docker ps**)
and then committing it to a new image name.  Note that only a-z0-9-_. are
allowed when naming images:

    # docker commit c16378f943fe rhel-httpd

Now, push the image to the registry using the image ID. In this example the
registry is on host named `registry-host` and listening on port `5000`. To do
this, tag the image with the host name or IP address, and the port of the
registry:

    # docker tag rhel-httpd registry-host:5000/myadmin/rhel-httpd
    # docker push registry-host:5000/myadmin/rhel-httpd

Check that this worked by running:

    # docker images

You should see both `rhel-httpd` and `registry-host:5000/myadmin/rhel-httpd`
listed.

Registry credentials are managed by **docker-login(1)**.

# HISTORY
April 2014, Originally compiled by William Henry (whenry at redhat dot com)
based on docker.com source material and internal work.
June 2014, updated by Sven Dowideit <SvenDowideit@home.org.au>
April 2015, updated by Mary Anthony for v2 <mary@docker.com>
June 2015, updated by Sally O'Malley <somalley@redhat.com>
