experimental/README.md, before:

# Docker Experimental Features 

This page contains a list of features in the Docker engine which are
experimental. Experimental features are **not** ready for production. They are
provided for test and evaluation in your sandbox environments.  

The information below describes each feature and the GitHub pull requests and
issues associated with it. If necessary, links are provided to additional
documentation on an issue.  As an active Docker user and community member,
please feel free to provide any feedback on these features you wish.

## Install Docker experimental 

Unlike the regular Docker binary, the experimental channels is built and updated nightly on TO.BE.ANNOUNCED. From one day to the next, new features may appear, while existing experimental features may be refined or entirely removed.

1. Verify that you have `wget` installed.

        $ which wget

    If `wget` isn't installed, install it after updating your manager:

        $ sudo apt-get update
        $ sudo apt-get install wget

2. Get the latest Docker package.

        $ wget -qO- https://experimental.docker.com/ | sh

    The system prompts you for your `sudo` password. Then, it downloads and
    installs Docker and its dependencies.

	>**Note**: If your company is behind a filtering proxy, you may find that the
	>`apt-key`
	>command fails for the Docker repo during installation. To work around this,
	>add the key directly using the following:
	>
	>       $ wget -qO- https://experimental.docker.com/gpg | sudo apt-key add -

3. Verify `docker` is installed correctly.

        $ sudo docker run hello-world

    This command downloads a test image and runs it in a container.

## Current experimental features

* [Support for Docker plugins](plugins.md)
  * [Volume plugins](plugins_volume.md)
* [Native Multi-host networking](networking.md)
* [Compose, Swarm and networking integration](compose_swarm_networking.md)

## How to comment on an experimental feature

Each feature's documentation includes a list of proposal pull requests or PRs associated with the feature. If you want to comment on or suggest a change to a feature, please add it to the existing feature PR.  

Issues or problems with a feature? Inquire for help on the `#docker` IRC channel or in on the [Docker Google group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/docker-user).

Commit message:

Document the location of experimental binary
Some devs might want to download the binary directly,
especially for systems where the install script does not
work.

Signed-off-by: Ankush Agarwal <ankushagarwal11@gmail.com>

experimental/README.md, after:

# Docker Experimental Features 

This page contains a list of features in the Docker engine which are
experimental. Experimental features are **not** ready for production. They are
provided for test and evaluation in your sandbox environments.  

The information below describes each feature and the GitHub pull requests and
issues associated with it. If necessary, links are provided to additional
documentation on an issue.  As an active Docker user and community member,
please feel free to provide any feedback on these features you wish.

## Install Docker experimental

Unlike the regular Docker binary, the experimental channels is built and updated nightly on TO.BE.ANNOUNCED. From one day to the next, new features may appear, while existing experimental features may be refined or entirely removed.

1. Verify that you have `wget` installed.

        $ which wget

    If `wget` isn't installed, install it after updating your manager:

        $ sudo apt-get update
        $ sudo apt-get install wget

2. Get the latest Docker package.

        $ wget -qO- https://experimental.docker.com/ | sh

    The system prompts you for your `sudo` password. Then, it downloads and
    installs Docker and its dependencies.

	>**Note**: If your company is behind a filtering proxy, you may find that the
	>`apt-key`
	>command fails for the Docker repo during installation. To work around this,
	>add the key directly using the following:
	>
	>       $ wget -qO- https://experimental.docker.com/gpg | sudo apt-key add -

3. Verify `docker` is installed correctly.

        $ sudo docker run hello-world

    This command downloads a test image and runs it in a container.

### Get the Linux binary
To download the latest experimental `docker` binary for Linux,
use the following URLs:

    https://experimental.docker.com/builds/Linux/i386/docker-latest

    https://experimental.docker.com/builds/Linux/x86_64/docker-latest

After downloading the appropriate binary, you can follow the instructions
[here](https://docs.docker.com/installation/binaries/#get-the-docker-binary) to run the `docker` daemon.

> **Note**
>
> 1) You can get the MD5 and SHA256 hashes by appending .md5 and .sha256 to the URLs respectively
>
> 2) You can get the compressed binaries by appending .tgz to the URLs

## Current experimental features

* [Support for Docker plugins](plugins.md)
  * [Volume plugins](plugins_volume.md)
* [Native Multi-host networking](networking.md)
* [Compose, Swarm and networking integration](compose_swarm_networking.md)

## How to comment on an experimental feature

Each feature's documentation includes a list of proposal pull requests or PRs associated with the feature. If you want to comment on or suggest a change to a feature, please add it to the existing feature PR.  

Issues or problems with a feature? Inquire for help on the `#docker` IRC channel or in on the [Docker Google group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/docker-user).
