docs/reference/commandline/commit.md, before:

<!--[metadata]>
+++
title = "commit"
description = "The commit command description and usage"
keywords = ["commit, file, changes"]
[menu.main]
parent = "smn_cli"
weight=1
+++
<![end-metadata]-->

# commit

    Usage: docker commit [OPTIONS] CONTAINER [REPOSITORY[:TAG]]

    Create a new image from a container's changes

      -a, --author=""     Author (e.g., "John Hannibal Smith <hannibal@a-team.com>")
      -c, --change=[]     Apply specified Dockerfile instructions while committing the image
      -m, --message=""    Commit message
      -p, --pause=true    Pause container during commit

It can be useful to commit a container's file changes or settings into a new
image. This allows you debug a container by running an interactive shell, or to
export a working dataset to another server. Generally, it is better to use
Dockerfiles to manage your images in a documented and maintainable way.

By default, the container being committed and its processes will be paused
while the image is committed. This reduces the likelihood of encountering data
corruption during the process of creating the commit.  If this behavior is
undesired, set the 'p' option to false.

The `--change` option will apply `Dockerfile` instructions to the image that is
created.  Supported `Dockerfile` instructions:
`CMD`|`ENTRYPOINT`|`ENV`|`EXPOSE`|`ONBUILD`|`USER`|`VOLUME`|`WORKDIR`

## Commit a container

    $ docker ps
    ID                  IMAGE               COMMAND             CREATED             STATUS              PORTS
    c3f279d17e0a        ubuntu:12.04        /bin/bash           7 days ago          Up 25 hours
    197387f1b436        ubuntu:12.04        /bin/bash           7 days ago          Up 25 hours
    $ docker commit c3f279d17e0a  SvenDowideit/testimage:version3
    f5283438590d
    $ docker images
    REPOSITORY                        TAG                 ID                  CREATED             VIRTUAL SIZE
    SvenDowideit/testimage            version3            f5283438590d        16 seconds ago      335.7 MB

## Commit a container with new configurations

    $ docker ps
    ID                  IMAGE               COMMAND             CREATED             STATUS              PORTS
    c3f279d17e0a        ubuntu:12.04        /bin/bash           7 days ago          Up 25 hours
    197387f1b436        ubuntu:12.04        /bin/bash           7 days ago          Up 25 hours
    $ docker inspect -f "{{ .Config.Env }}" c3f279d17e0a
    [HOME=/ PATH=/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin]
    $ docker commit --change "ENV DEBUG true" c3f279d17e0a  SvenDowideit/testimage:version3
    f5283438590d
    $ docker inspect -f "{{ .Config.Env }}" f5283438590d
    [HOME=/ PATH=/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin DEBUG=true]

Commit message:

Update docker commit man page re: volumes
Update the man page for 'docker commit' to make explicit the fact that
'commit' does not save data in volumes.

Addresses comments in #7583

Signed-off-by: Lars Kellogg-Stedman <lars@redhat.com>

docs/reference/commandline/commit.md, after:

<!--[metadata]>
+++
title = "commit"
description = "The commit command description and usage"
keywords = ["commit, file, changes"]
[menu.main]
parent = "smn_cli"
weight=1
+++
<![end-metadata]-->

# commit

    Usage: docker commit [OPTIONS] CONTAINER [REPOSITORY[:TAG]]

    Create a new image from a container's changes

      -a, --author=""     Author (e.g., "John Hannibal Smith <hannibal@a-team.com>")
      -c, --change=[]     Apply specified Dockerfile instructions while committing the image
      -m, --message=""    Commit message
      -p, --pause=true    Pause container during commit

It can be useful to commit a container's file changes or settings into a new
image. This allows you debug a container by running an interactive shell, or to
export a working dataset to another server. Generally, it is better to use
Dockerfiles to manage your images in a documented and maintainable way.

The commit operation will not include any data contained in
volumes mounted inside the container.

By default, the container being committed and its processes will be paused
while the image is committed. This reduces the likelihood of encountering data
corruption during the process of creating the commit.  If this behavior is
undesired, set the 'p' option to false.

The `--change` option will apply `Dockerfile` instructions to the image that is
created.  Supported `Dockerfile` instructions:
`CMD`|`ENTRYPOINT`|`ENV`|`EXPOSE`|`ONBUILD`|`USER`|`VOLUME`|`WORKDIR`

## Commit a container

    $ docker ps
    ID                  IMAGE               COMMAND             CREATED             STATUS              PORTS
    c3f279d17e0a        ubuntu:12.04        /bin/bash           7 days ago          Up 25 hours
    197387f1b436        ubuntu:12.04        /bin/bash           7 days ago          Up 25 hours
    $ docker commit c3f279d17e0a  SvenDowideit/testimage:version3
    f5283438590d
    $ docker images
    REPOSITORY                        TAG                 ID                  CREATED             VIRTUAL SIZE
    SvenDowideit/testimage            version3            f5283438590d        16 seconds ago      335.7 MB

## Commit a container with new configurations

    $ docker ps
    ID                  IMAGE               COMMAND             CREATED             STATUS              PORTS
    c3f279d17e0a        ubuntu:12.04        /bin/bash           7 days ago          Up 25 hours
    197387f1b436        ubuntu:12.04        /bin/bash           7 days ago          Up 25 hours
    $ docker inspect -f "{{ .Config.Env }}" c3f279d17e0a
    [HOME=/ PATH=/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin]
    $ docker commit --change "ENV DEBUG true" c3f279d17e0a  SvenDowideit/testimage:version3
    f5283438590d
    $ docker inspect -f "{{ .Config.Env }}" f5283438590d
    [HOME=/ PATH=/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin DEBUG=true]
