docs/reference/commandline/search.md, before:

<!--[metadata]>
+++
title = "search"
description = "The search command description and usage"
keywords = ["search, hub, images"]
[menu.main]
parent = "smn_cli"
+++
<![end-metadata]-->

# search

    Usage: docker search [OPTIONS] TERM

    Search the Docker Hub for images

      --filter=[]          Filter output based on these conditions:
                           - is-automated=(true|false)
                           - is-official=(true|false)
                           - stars=<number> - image has at least 'number' stars
      --help               Print usage
      --no-trunc           Don't truncate output

Search [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com) for images

See [*Find Public Images on Docker Hub*](../../userguide/containers/dockerrepos.md#searching-for-images) for
more details on finding shared images from the command line.

> **Note:**
> Search queries will only return up to 25 results

## Examples

### Search images by name

This example displays images with a name containing 'busybox':

    $ docker search busybox
    NAME                             DESCRIPTION                                     STARS     OFFICIAL   AUTOMATED
    busybox                          Busybox base image.                             316       [OK]       
    progrium/busybox                                                                 50                   [OK]
    radial/busyboxplus               Full-chain, Internet enabled, busybox made...   8                    [OK]
    odise/busybox-python                                                             2                    [OK]
    azukiapp/busybox                 This image is meant to be used as the base...   2                    [OK]
    ofayau/busybox-jvm               Prepare busybox to install a 32 bits JVM.       1                    [OK]
    shingonoide/archlinux-busybox    Arch Linux, a lightweight and flexible Lin...   1                    [OK]
    odise/busybox-curl                                                               1                    [OK]
    ofayau/busybox-libc32            Busybox with 32 bits (and 64 bits) libs         1                    [OK]
    peelsky/zulu-openjdk-busybox                                                     1                    [OK]
    skomma/busybox-data              Docker image suitable for data volume cont...   1                    [OK]
    elektritter/busybox-teamspeak    Leightweight teamspeak3 container based on...   1                    [OK]
    socketplane/busybox                                                              1                    [OK]
    oveits/docker-nginx-busybox      This is a tiny NginX docker image based on...   0                    [OK]
    ggtools/busybox-ubuntu           Busybox ubuntu version with extra goodies       0                    [OK]
    nikfoundas/busybox-confd         Minimal busybox based distribution of confd     0                    [OK]
    openshift/busybox-http-app                                                       0                    [OK]
    jllopis/busybox                                                                  0                    [OK]
    swyckoff/busybox                                                                 0                    [OK]
    powellquiring/busybox                                                            0                    [OK]
    williamyeh/busybox-sh            Docker image for BusyBox's sh                   0                    [OK]
    simplexsys/busybox-cli-powered   Docker busybox images, with a few often us...   0                    [OK]
    fhisamoto/busybox-java           Busybox java                                    0                    [OK]
    scottabernethy/busybox                                                           0                    [OK]
    marclop/busybox-solr

### Display non-truncated description (--no-trunc)

This example displays images with a name containing 'busybox',
at least 3 stars and the description isn't truncated in the output:

    $ docker search --stars=3 --no-trunc busybox
    NAME                 DESCRIPTION                                                                               STARS     OFFICIAL   AUTOMATED
    busybox              Busybox base image.                                                                       325       [OK]       
    progrium/busybox                                                                                               50                   [OK]
    radial/busyboxplus   Full-chain, Internet enabled, busybox made from scratch. Comes in git and cURL flavors.   8                    [OK]

## Filtering

The filtering flag (`-f` or `--filter`) format is a `key=value` pair. If there is more
than one filter, then pass multiple flags (e.g. `--filter "foo=bar" --filter "bif=baz"`)

The currently supported filters are:

* stars (int - number of stars the image has)
* is-automated (true|false) - is the image automated or not
* is-official (true|false) - is the image official or not


### stars

This example displays images with a name containing 'busybox' and at
least 3 stars:

    $ docker search --filter stars=3 busybox
    NAME                 DESCRIPTION                                     STARS     OFFICIAL   AUTOMATED
    busybox              Busybox base image.                             325       [OK]       
    progrium/busybox                                                     50                   [OK]
    radial/busyboxplus   Full-chain, Internet enabled, busybox made...   8                    [OK]


### is-automated

This example displays images with a name containing 'busybox'
and are automated builds:

    $ docker search --filter is-automated busybox
    NAME                 DESCRIPTION                                     STARS     OFFICIAL   AUTOMATED
    progrium/busybox                                                     50                   [OK]
    radial/busyboxplus   Full-chain, Internet enabled, busybox made...   8                    [OK]

### is-official

This example displays images with a name containing 'busybox', at least
3 stars and are official builds:

    $ docker search --filter "is-automated=true" --filter "stars=3" busybox
    NAME                 DESCRIPTION                                     STARS     OFFICIAL   AUTOMATED
    progrium/busybox                                                     50                   [OK]
    radial/busyboxplus   Full-chain, Internet enabled, busybox made...   8                    [OK]

Commit message:

Add `--limit` option to `docker search`
This fix tries to address the issue raised in #23055.
Currently `docker search` result caps at 25 and there is
no way to allow getting more results (if exist).

This fix adds the flag `--limit` so that it is possible
to return more results from the `docker search`.

Related documentation has been updated.

Additional tests have been added to cover the changes.

This fix fixes #23055.

Signed-off-by: Yong Tang <yong.tang.github@outlook.com>

docs/reference/commandline/search.md, after:

<!--[metadata]>
+++
title = "search"
description = "The search command description and usage"
keywords = ["search, hub, images"]
[menu.main]
parent = "smn_cli"
+++
<![end-metadata]-->

# search

    Usage: docker search [OPTIONS] TERM

    Search the Docker Hub for images

      --filter=[]          Filter output based on these conditions:
                           - is-automated=(true|false)
                           - is-official=(true|false)
                           - stars=<number> - image has at least 'number' stars
      --help               Print usage
      --limit=25           Maximum returned search results
      --no-trunc           Don't truncate output

Search [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com) for images

See [*Find Public Images on Docker Hub*](../../userguide/containers/dockerrepos.md#searching-for-images) for
more details on finding shared images from the command line.

> **Note:**
> Search queries will only return up to 25 results

## Examples

### Search images by name

This example displays images with a name containing 'busybox':

    $ docker search busybox
    NAME                             DESCRIPTION                                     STARS     OFFICIAL   AUTOMATED
    busybox                          Busybox base image.                             316       [OK]       
    progrium/busybox                                                                 50                   [OK]
    radial/busyboxplus               Full-chain, Internet enabled, busybox made...   8                    [OK]
    odise/busybox-python                                                             2                    [OK]
    azukiapp/busybox                 This image is meant to be used as the base...   2                    [OK]
    ofayau/busybox-jvm               Prepare busybox to install a 32 bits JVM.       1                    [OK]
    shingonoide/archlinux-busybox    Arch Linux, a lightweight and flexible Lin...   1                    [OK]
    odise/busybox-curl                                                               1                    [OK]
    ofayau/busybox-libc32            Busybox with 32 bits (and 64 bits) libs         1                    [OK]
    peelsky/zulu-openjdk-busybox                                                     1                    [OK]
    skomma/busybox-data              Docker image suitable for data volume cont...   1                    [OK]
    elektritter/busybox-teamspeak    Leightweight teamspeak3 container based on...   1                    [OK]
    socketplane/busybox                                                              1                    [OK]
    oveits/docker-nginx-busybox      This is a tiny NginX docker image based on...   0                    [OK]
    ggtools/busybox-ubuntu           Busybox ubuntu version with extra goodies       0                    [OK]
    nikfoundas/busybox-confd         Minimal busybox based distribution of confd     0                    [OK]
    openshift/busybox-http-app                                                       0                    [OK]
    jllopis/busybox                                                                  0                    [OK]
    swyckoff/busybox                                                                 0                    [OK]
    powellquiring/busybox                                                            0                    [OK]
    williamyeh/busybox-sh            Docker image for BusyBox's sh                   0                    [OK]
    simplexsys/busybox-cli-powered   Docker busybox images, with a few often us...   0                    [OK]
    fhisamoto/busybox-java           Busybox java                                    0                    [OK]
    scottabernethy/busybox                                                           0                    [OK]
    marclop/busybox-solr

### Display non-truncated description (--no-trunc)

This example displays images with a name containing 'busybox',
at least 3 stars and the description isn't truncated in the output:

    $ docker search --stars=3 --no-trunc busybox
    NAME                 DESCRIPTION                                                                               STARS     OFFICIAL   AUTOMATED
    busybox              Busybox base image.                                                                       325       [OK]       
    progrium/busybox                                                                                               50                   [OK]
    radial/busyboxplus   Full-chain, Internet enabled, busybox made from scratch. Comes in git and cURL flavors.   8                    [OK]

## Limit search results (--limit)

The flag `--limit` is the maximium number of results returned by a search. This value could
be in the range between 1 and 100. The default value of `--limit` is 25.


## Filtering

The filtering flag (`-f` or `--filter`) format is a `key=value` pair. If there is more
than one filter, then pass multiple flags (e.g. `--filter "foo=bar" --filter "bif=baz"`)

The currently supported filters are:

* stars (int - number of stars the image has)
* is-automated (true|false) - is the image automated or not
* is-official (true|false) - is the image official or not


### stars

This example displays images with a name containing 'busybox' and at
least 3 stars:

    $ docker search --filter stars=3 busybox
    NAME                 DESCRIPTION                                     STARS     OFFICIAL   AUTOMATED
    busybox              Busybox base image.                             325       [OK]       
    progrium/busybox                                                     50                   [OK]
    radial/busyboxplus   Full-chain, Internet enabled, busybox made...   8                    [OK]


### is-automated

This example displays images with a name containing 'busybox'
and are automated builds:

    $ docker search --filter is-automated busybox
    NAME                 DESCRIPTION                                     STARS     OFFICIAL   AUTOMATED
    progrium/busybox                                                     50                   [OK]
    radial/busyboxplus   Full-chain, Internet enabled, busybox made...   8                    [OK]

### is-official

This example displays images with a name containing 'busybox', at least
3 stars and are official builds:

    $ docker search --filter "is-automated=true" --filter "stars=3" busybox
    NAME                 DESCRIPTION                                     STARS     OFFICIAL   AUTOMATED
    progrium/busybox                                                     50                   [OK]
    radial/busyboxplus   Full-chain, Internet enabled, busybox made...   8                    [OK]
