docs/reference/commandline/service_create.md, before:

<!--[metadata]>
+++
title = "service create"
description = "The service create command description and usage"
keywords = ["service, create"]
[menu.main]
parent = "smn_cli"
+++
<![end-metadata]-->

# service create

```Markdown
Usage:  docker service create [OPTIONS] IMAGE [COMMAND] [ARG...]

Create a new service

Options:
      --constraint value               Placement constraints (default [])
      --container-label value          Service container labels (default [])
      --endpoint-mode string           Endpoint mode (vip or dnsrr)
  -e, --env value                      Set environment variables (default [])
      --help                           Print usage
  -l, --label value                    Service labels (default [])
      --limit-cpu value                Limit CPUs (default 0.000)
      --limit-memory value             Limit Memory (default 0 B)
      --log-driver string              Logging driver for service
      --log-opt value                  Logging driver options (default [])
      --mode string                    Service mode (replicated or global) (default "replicated")
      --mount value                    Attach a mount to the service
      --name string                    Service name
      --network value                  Network attachments (default [])
  -p, --publish value                  Publish a port as a node port (default [])
      --replicas value                 Number of tasks (default none)
      --reserve-cpu value              Reserve CPUs (default 0.000)
      --reserve-memory value           Reserve Memory (default 0 B)
      --restart-condition string       Restart when condition is met (none, on-failure, or any)
      --restart-delay value            Delay between restart attempts (default none)
      --restart-max-attempts value     Maximum number of restarts before giving up (default none)
      --restart-window value           Window used to evaluate the restart policy (default none)
      --stop-grace-period value        Time to wait before force killing a container (default none)
      --update-delay duration          Delay between updates
      --update-failure-action string   Action on update failure (pause|continue) (default "pause")
      --update-parallelism uint        Maximum number of tasks updated simultaneously (0 to update all at once) (default 1)
  -u, --user string                    Username or UID (format: <name|uid>[:<group|gid>])
      --with-registry-auth             Send registry authentication details to Swarm agents
  -w, --workdir string                 Working directory inside the container
```

Creates a service as described by the specified parameters. This command has to
be run targeting a manager node.

## Examples

### Create a service

```bash
$ docker service create --name redis redis:3.0.6
dmu1ept4cxcfe8k8lhtux3ro3

$ docker service ls
ID            NAME   REPLICAS  IMAGE        COMMAND
dmu1ept4cxcf  redis  1/1       redis:3.0.6
```

### Create a service with 5 tasks

You can set the number of tasks for a service using the `--replicas` option. The
following command creates a `redis` service with `5` tasks:

```bash
$ docker service create --name redis --replicas=5 redis:3.0.6
4cdgfyky7ozwh3htjfw0d12qv
```

The above command sets the *desired* number of tasks for the service. Even
though the command returns directly, actual scaling of the service may take
some time. The `REPLICAS` column shows both the *actual* and *desired* number
of tasks for the service.

In the following example, the desired number of tasks is set to `5`, but the
*actual* number is `3`

```bash
$ docker service ls
ID            NAME    REPLICAS  IMAGE        COMMAND
4cdgfyky7ozw  redis   3/5       redis:3.0.7
```

Once all the tasks are created, the actual number of tasks is equal to the
desired number:

```bash
$ docker service ls
ID            NAME    REPLICAS  IMAGE        COMMAND
4cdgfyky7ozw  redis   5/5       redis:3.0.7
```


### Create a service with a rolling update policy


```bash
$ docker service create \
  --replicas 10 \
  --name redis \
  --update-delay 10s \
  --update-parallelism 2 \
  redis:3.0.6
```

When this service is [updated](service_update.md), a rolling update will update
tasks in batches of `2`, with `10s` between batches.

### Setting environment variables (-e --env)

This sets environmental variables for all tasks in a service. For example:

```bash
$ docker service create --name redis_2 --replicas 5 --env MYVAR=foo redis:3.0.6
```

### Set metadata on a service (-l --label)

A label is a `key=value` pair that applies metadata to a service. To label a
service with two labels:

```bash
$ docker service create \
  --name redis_2 \
  --label com.example.foo="bar"
  --label bar=baz \
  redis:3.0.6
```

For more information about labels, refer to [apply custom
metadata](../../userguide/labels-custom-metadata.md).

### Set service mode

Is this a replicated service or a global service. A replicated service runs as
many tasks as specified, while a global service runs on each active node in the
swarm.

The following command creates a "global" service:

```bash
$ docker service create --name redis_2 --mode global redis:3.0.6
```

### Specify service constraints

You can limit the set of nodes where a task can be scheduled by defining
constraint expressions. Multiple constraints find nodes that satisfy every
expression (AND match). Constraints can match node or Docker Engine labels as
follows:

| node attribute | matches | example |
|:------------- |:-------------| :---------------------------------------------|
| node.id | node ID | `node.id == 2ivku8v2gvtg4`                               |
| node.hostname | node hostname | `node.hostname != node-2`                    |
| node.role | node role: manager | `node.role == manager`                      |
| node.labels | user defined node labels | `node.labels.security == high`      |
| engine.labels | Docker Engine's labels | `engine.labels.operatingsystem == ubuntu 14.04`|

`engine.labels` apply to Docker Engine labels like operating system,
drivers, etc. Swarm administrators add `node.labels` for operational purposes by
using the [`docker node update`](node_update.md) command.

For example, the following limits tasks for the redis service to nodes where the
node type label equals queue:

```bash
$ docker service create \
  --name redis_2 \
  --constraint 'node.labels.type == queue' \
  redis:3.0.6
```

## Related information

* [service inspect](service_inspect.md)
* [service ls](service_ls.md)
* [service rm](service_rm.md)
* [service scale](service_scale.md)
* [service ps](service_ps.md)
* [service update](service_update.md)

Commit message:

Support `--group-add` and `--group-rm` in `docker service create/update`
This fix tries to address the issue raised in 25304 to support
`--group-add` and `--group-rm` in `docker service create`.

This fix adds `--group-add` to `docker service create` and `docker service update`,
adds `--group-rm` to `docker service update`.

This fix updates docs for `docker service create` and `docker service update`:
1. Add `--group-add` to `docker service create` and `docker service update`
2. Add `--group-rm` to `docker service update`

Signed-off-by: Yong Tang <yong.tang.github@outlook.com>

docs/reference/commandline/service_create.md, after:

<!--[metadata]>
+++
title = "service create"
description = "The service create command description and usage"
keywords = ["service, create"]
[menu.main]
parent = "smn_cli"
+++
<![end-metadata]-->

# service create

```Markdown
Usage:  docker service create [OPTIONS] IMAGE [COMMAND] [ARG...]

Create a new service

Options:
      --constraint value               Placement constraints (default [])
      --container-label value          Service container labels (default [])
      --endpoint-mode string           Endpoint mode (vip or dnsrr)
  -e, --env value                      Set environment variables (default [])
      --group-add value                Add additional user groups to the container (default [])
      --help                           Print usage
  -l, --label value                    Service labels (default [])
      --limit-cpu value                Limit CPUs (default 0.000)
      --limit-memory value             Limit Memory (default 0 B)
      --log-driver string              Logging driver for service
      --log-opt value                  Logging driver options (default [])
      --mode string                    Service mode (replicated or global) (default "replicated")
      --mount value                    Attach a mount to the service
      --name string                    Service name
      --network value                  Network attachments (default [])
  -p, --publish value                  Publish a port as a node port (default [])
      --replicas value                 Number of tasks (default none)
      --reserve-cpu value              Reserve CPUs (default 0.000)
      --reserve-memory value           Reserve Memory (default 0 B)
      --restart-condition string       Restart when condition is met (none, on-failure, or any)
      --restart-delay value            Delay between restart attempts (default none)
      --restart-max-attempts value     Maximum number of restarts before giving up (default none)
      --restart-window value           Window used to evaluate the restart policy (default none)
      --stop-grace-period value        Time to wait before force killing a container (default none)
      --update-delay duration          Delay between updates
      --update-failure-action string   Action on update failure (pause|continue) (default "pause")
      --update-parallelism uint        Maximum number of tasks updated simultaneously (0 to update all at once) (default 1)
  -u, --user string                    Username or UID (format: <name|uid>[:<group|gid>])
      --with-registry-auth             Send registry authentication details to Swarm agents
  -w, --workdir string                 Working directory inside the container
```

Creates a service as described by the specified parameters. This command has to
be run targeting a manager node.

## Examples

### Create a service

```bash
$ docker service create --name redis redis:3.0.6
dmu1ept4cxcfe8k8lhtux3ro3

$ docker service ls
ID            NAME   REPLICAS  IMAGE        COMMAND
dmu1ept4cxcf  redis  1/1       redis:3.0.6
```

### Create a service with 5 tasks

You can set the number of tasks for a service using the `--replicas` option. The
following command creates a `redis` service with `5` tasks:

```bash
$ docker service create --name redis --replicas=5 redis:3.0.6
4cdgfyky7ozwh3htjfw0d12qv
```

The above command sets the *desired* number of tasks for the service. Even
though the command returns directly, actual scaling of the service may take
some time. The `REPLICAS` column shows both the *actual* and *desired* number
of tasks for the service.

In the following example, the desired number of tasks is set to `5`, but the
*actual* number is `3`

```bash
$ docker service ls
ID            NAME    REPLICAS  IMAGE        COMMAND
4cdgfyky7ozw  redis   3/5       redis:3.0.7
```

Once all the tasks are created, the actual number of tasks is equal to the
desired number:

```bash
$ docker service ls
ID            NAME    REPLICAS  IMAGE        COMMAND
4cdgfyky7ozw  redis   5/5       redis:3.0.7
```


### Create a service with a rolling update policy


```bash
$ docker service create \
  --replicas 10 \
  --name redis \
  --update-delay 10s \
  --update-parallelism 2 \
  redis:3.0.6
```

When this service is [updated](service_update.md), a rolling update will update
tasks in batches of `2`, with `10s` between batches.

### Setting environment variables (-e --env)

This sets environmental variables for all tasks in a service. For example:

```bash
$ docker service create --name redis_2 --replicas 5 --env MYVAR=foo redis:3.0.6
```

### Set metadata on a service (-l --label)

A label is a `key=value` pair that applies metadata to a service. To label a
service with two labels:

```bash
$ docker service create \
  --name redis_2 \
  --label com.example.foo="bar"
  --label bar=baz \
  redis:3.0.6
```

For more information about labels, refer to [apply custom
metadata](../../userguide/labels-custom-metadata.md).

### Set service mode

Is this a replicated service or a global service. A replicated service runs as
many tasks as specified, while a global service runs on each active node in the
swarm.

The following command creates a "global" service:

```bash
$ docker service create --name redis_2 --mode global redis:3.0.6
```

### Specify service constraints

You can limit the set of nodes where a task can be scheduled by defining
constraint expressions. Multiple constraints find nodes that satisfy every
expression (AND match). Constraints can match node or Docker Engine labels as
follows:

| node attribute | matches | example |
|:------------- |:-------------| :---------------------------------------------|
| node.id | node ID | `node.id == 2ivku8v2gvtg4`                               |
| node.hostname | node hostname | `node.hostname != node-2`                    |
| node.role | node role: manager | `node.role == manager`                      |
| node.labels | user defined node labels | `node.labels.security == high`      |
| engine.labels | Docker Engine's labels | `engine.labels.operatingsystem == ubuntu 14.04`|

`engine.labels` apply to Docker Engine labels like operating system,
drivers, etc. Swarm administrators add `node.labels` for operational purposes by
using the [`docker node update`](node_update.md) command.

For example, the following limits tasks for the redis service to nodes where the
node type label equals queue:

```bash
$ docker service create \
  --name redis_2 \
  --constraint 'node.labels.type == queue' \
  redis:3.0.6
```

## Related information

* [service inspect](service_inspect.md)
* [service ls](service_ls.md)
* [service rm](service_rm.md)
* [service scale](service_scale.md)
* [service ps](service_ps.md)
* [service update](service_update.md)
