docs/reference/commandline/swarm_join_token.md, before:

<!--[metadata]>
+++
title = "swarm join-token"
description = "The swarm join-token command description and usage"
keywords = ["swarm, join-token"]
[menu.main]
parent = "smn_cli"
+++
<![end-metadata]-->

# swarm join-token

```markdown
Usage:	docker swarm join-token [--rotate] (worker|manager)

Manage join tokens

Options:
      --help     Print usage
  -q, --quiet    Only display token
      --rotate   Rotate join token
```

Join tokens are secrets that determine whether or not a node will join the swarm as a manager node
or a worker node. You pass the token using the `--token flag` when you run
[swarm join](swarm_join.md). You can access the current tokens or rotate the tokens using
`swarm join-token`.

Run with only a single `worker` or `manager` argument, it will print a command for joining a new
node to the swarm, including the necessary token:

```bash
$ docker swarm join-token worker
To add a worker to this swarm, run the following command:
    docker swarm join \
    --token SWMTKN-1-3pu6hszjas19xyp7ghgosyx9k8atbfcr8p2is99znpy26u2lkl-1awxwuwd3z9j1z3puu7rcgdbx \
    172.17.0.2:2377

$ docker swarm join-token manager
To add a manager to this swarm, run the following command:
    docker swarm join \
    --token SWMTKN-1-3pu6hszjas19xyp7ghgosyx9k8atbfcr8p2is99znpy26u2lkl-7p73s1dx5in4tatdymyhg9hu2 \
    172.17.0.2:2377
```

Use the `--rotate` flag to generate a new join token for the specified role:

```bash
$ docker swarm join-token --rotate worker
To add a worker to this swarm, run the following command:
    docker swarm join \
    --token SWMTKN-1-3pu6hszjas19xyp7ghgosyx9k8atbfcr8p2is99znpy26u2lkl-b30ljddcqhef9b9v4rs7mel7t \
    172.17.0.2:2377
```

After using `--rotate`, only the new token will be valid for joining with the specified role.

The `-q` (or `--quiet`) flag only prints the token:

```bash
$ docker swarm join-token -q worker
SWMTKN-1-3pu6hszjas19xyp7ghgosyx9k8atbfcr8p2is99znpy26u2lkl-b30ljddcqhef9b9v4rs7mel7t
```

### `--rotate`

Update the join token for a specified role with a new token and print the token.

### `--quiet`

Only print the token. Do not print a complete command for joining.

## Related information

* [swarm join](swarm_join.md)

Commit message:

add advertise address, clarify join token
Signed-off-by: Charles Smith <charles.smith@docker.com>

docs/reference/commandline/swarm_join_token.md, after:

<!--[metadata]>
+++
title = "swarm join-token"
description = "The swarm join-token command description and usage"
keywords = ["swarm, join-token"]
[menu.main]
parent = "smn_cli"
+++
<![end-metadata]-->

# swarm join-token

```markdown
Usage:	docker swarm join-token [--rotate] (worker|manager)

Manage join tokens

Options:
      --help     Print usage
  -q, --quiet    Only display token
      --rotate   Rotate join token
```

Join tokens are secrets that allow a node to join the swarm. There are two
different join tokens available, one for the worker role and one for the manager
role. You pass the token using the `--token` flag when you run
[swarm join](swarm_join.md). Nodes use the join token only when they join the
swarm.

You can view or rotate the join tokens using `swarm join-token`.

As a convenience, you can pass `worker` or `manager` as an argument to
`join-token` to print the full `docker swarm join` command to join a new node to
the swarm:

```bash
$ docker swarm join-token worker
To add a worker to this swarm, run the following command:
    docker swarm join \
    --token SWMTKN-1-3pu6hszjas19xyp7ghgosyx9k8atbfcr8p2is99znpy26u2lkl-1awxwuwd3z9j1z3puu7rcgdbx \
    172.17.0.2:2377

$ docker swarm join-token manager
To add a manager to this swarm, run the following command:
    docker swarm join \
    --token SWMTKN-1-3pu6hszjas19xyp7ghgosyx9k8atbfcr8p2is99znpy26u2lkl-7p73s1dx5in4tatdymyhg9hu2 \
    172.17.0.2:2377
```

Use the `--rotate` flag to generate a new join token for the specified role:

```bash
$ docker swarm join-token --rotate worker
To add a worker to this swarm, run the following command:
    docker swarm join \
    --token SWMTKN-1-3pu6hszjas19xyp7ghgosyx9k8atbfcr8p2is99znpy26u2lkl-b30ljddcqhef9b9v4rs7mel7t \
    172.17.0.2:2377
```

After using `--rotate`, only the new token will be valid for joining with the specified role.

The `-q` (or `--quiet`) flag only prints the token:

```bash
$ docker swarm join-token -q worker
SWMTKN-1-3pu6hszjas19xyp7ghgosyx9k8atbfcr8p2is99znpy26u2lkl-b30ljddcqhef9b9v4rs7mel7t
```

### `--rotate`

Because tokens allow new nodes to join the swarm, you should keep them secret.
Be particularly careful with manager tokens since they allow new manager nodes
to join the swarm. A rogue manager has the potential to disrupt the operation of
your swarm.

Rotate your swarm's join token if a token gets checked-in to version control,
stolen, or a node is compromised. You may also want to periodically rotate the
token to ensure any unknown token leaks do not allow a rogue node to join
the swarm.

To rotate the join token and print the newly generated token, run
`docker swarm join-token --rotate` and pass the role: `manager` or `worker`.

Rotating a join-token means that no new nodes will be able to join the swarm
using the old token. Rotation does not affect existing nodes in the swarm
because the join token is only used for authorizing new nodes joining the swarm.

### `--quiet`

Only print the token. Do not print a complete command for joining.

## Related information

* [swarm join](swarm_join.md)
