docs/reference/commandline/swarm_init.md, before:

<!--[metadata]>
+++
title = "swarm init"
description = "The swarm init command description and usage"
keywords = ["swarm, init"]
advisory = "rc"
[menu.main]
parent = "smn_cli"
+++
<![end-metadata]-->

# swarm init

```markdown
Usage:  docker swarm init [OPTIONS]

Initialize a swarm

Options:
      --cert-expiry duration            Validity period for node certificates (default 2160h0m0s)
      --dispatcher-heartbeat duration   Dispatcher heartbeat period (default 5s)
      --external-ca value               Specifications of one or more certificate signing endpoints
      --force-new-cluster               Force create a new cluster from current state.
      --help                            Print usage
      --listen-addr value               Listen address (default 0.0.0.0:2377)
      --task-history-limit int          Task history retention limit (default 5)
```

Initialize a swarm cluster. The docker engine targeted by this command becomes a manager
in the newly created one node swarm cluster.


```bash
$ docker swarm init --listen-addr 192.168.99.121:2377
Swarm initialized: current node (bvz81updecsj6wjz393c09vti) is now a manager.

To add a worker to this swarm, run the following command:
    docker swarm join \
    --token SWMTKN-1-3pu6hszjas19xyp7ghgosyx9k8atbfcr8p2is99znpy26u2lkl-1awxwuwd3z9j1z3puu7rcgdbx \
    172.17.0.2:2377

To add a manager to this swarm, run the following command:
    docker swarm join \
    --token SWMTKN-1-3pu6hszjas19xyp7ghgosyx9k8atbfcr8p2is99znpy26u2lkl-7p73s1dx5in4tatdymyhg9hu2 \
    172.17.0.2:2377
```

`docker swarm init` generates two random tokens, a worker token and a manager token. When you join
a new node to the swarm, the node joins as a worker or manager node based upon the token you pass
to [swarm join](swarm_join.md).

After you create the swarm, you can display or rotate the token using
[swarm join-token](swarm_join_token.md).

### `--cert-expiry`

This flag sets the validity period for node certificates.

### `--dispatcher-heartbeat`

This flags sets the frequency with which nodes are told to use as a
period to report their health.

### `--external-ca value`

This flag sets up the swarm to use an external CA to issue node certificates. The value takes
the form `protocol=X,url=Y`. The value for `protocol` specifies what protocol should be used
to send signing requests to the external CA. Currently, the only supported value is `cfssl`.
The URL specifies the endpoint where signing requests should be submitted.

### `--force-new-cluster`

This flag forces an existing node that was part of a quorum that was lost to restart as a single node Manager without losing its data

### `--listen-addr value`

The node listens for inbound swarm manager traffic on this IP:PORT

### `--task-history-limit`

This flag sets up task history retention limit.

## Related information

* [swarm join](swarm_join.md)
* [swarm leave](swarm_leave.md)
* [swarm update](swarm_update.md)
* [swarm join-token](swarm_join_token.md)
* [node rm](node_rm.md)

Commit message:

Split advertised address from listen address
There are currently problems with "swarm init" and "swarm join" when an
explicit --listen-addr flag is not provided. swarmkit defaults to
finding the IP address associated with the default route, and in cloud
setups this is often the wrong choice.

Introduce a notion of "advertised address", with the client flag
--advertise-addr, and the daemon flag --swarm-default-advertise-addr to
provide a default. The default listening address is now 0.0.0.0, but a
valid advertised address must be detected or specified.

If no explicit advertised address is specified, error out if there is
more than one usable candidate IP address on the system. This requires a
user to explicitly choose instead of letting swarmkit make the wrong
choice. For the purposes of this autodetection, we ignore certain
interfaces that are unlikely to be relevant (currently docker*).

The user is also required to choose a listen address on swarm init if
they specify an explicit advertise address that is a hostname or an IP
address that's not local to the system. This is a requirement for
overlay networking.

Also support specifying interface names to --listen-addr,
--advertise-addr, and the daemon flag --swarm-default-advertise-addr.
This will fail if the interface has multiple IP addresses (unless it has
a single IPv4 address and a single IPv6 address - then we resolve the
tie in favor of IPv4).

This change also exposes the node's externally-reachable address in
docker info, as requested by #24017.

Make corresponding API and CLI docs changes.

Signed-off-by: Aaron Lehmann <aaron.lehmann@docker.com>

docs/reference/commandline/swarm_init.md, after:

<!--[metadata]>
+++
title = "swarm init"
description = "The swarm init command description and usage"
keywords = ["swarm, init"]
advisory = "rc"
[menu.main]
parent = "smn_cli"
+++
<![end-metadata]-->

# swarm init

```markdown
Usage:  docker swarm init [OPTIONS]

Initialize a swarm

Options:
      --advertise-addr value            Advertised address (format: <ip|hostname|interface>[:port])
      --cert-expiry duration            Validity period for node certificates (default 2160h0m0s)
      --dispatcher-heartbeat duration   Dispatcher heartbeat period (default 5s)
      --external-ca value               Specifications of one or more certificate signing endpoints
      --force-new-cluster               Force create a new cluster from current state.
      --help                            Print usage
      --listen-addr value               Listen address (format: <ip|hostname|interface>[:port])
      --task-history-limit int          Task history retention limit (default 5)
```

Initialize a swarm cluster. The docker engine targeted by this command becomes a manager
in the newly created one node swarm cluster.


```bash
$ docker swarm init --advertise-addr 192.168.99.121
Swarm initialized: current node (bvz81updecsj6wjz393c09vti) is now a manager.

To add a worker to this swarm, run the following command:
    docker swarm join \
    --token SWMTKN-1-3pu6hszjas19xyp7ghgosyx9k8atbfcr8p2is99znpy26u2lkl-1awxwuwd3z9j1z3puu7rcgdbx \
    172.17.0.2:2377

To add a manager to this swarm, run the following command:
    docker swarm join \
    --token SWMTKN-1-3pu6hszjas19xyp7ghgosyx9k8atbfcr8p2is99znpy26u2lkl-7p73s1dx5in4tatdymyhg9hu2 \
    172.17.0.2:2377
```

`docker swarm init` generates two random tokens, a worker token and a manager token. When you join
a new node to the swarm, the node joins as a worker or manager node based upon the token you pass
to [swarm join](swarm_join.md).

After you create the swarm, you can display or rotate the token using
[swarm join-token](swarm_join_token.md).

### `--cert-expiry`

This flag sets the validity period for node certificates.

### `--dispatcher-heartbeat`

This flags sets the frequency with which nodes are told to use as a
period to report their health.

### `--external-ca value`

This flag sets up the swarm to use an external CA to issue node certificates. The value takes
the form `protocol=X,url=Y`. The value for `protocol` specifies what protocol should be used
to send signing requests to the external CA. Currently, the only supported value is `cfssl`.
The URL specifies the endpoint where signing requests should be submitted.

### `--force-new-cluster`

This flag forces an existing node that was part of a quorum that was lost to restart as a single node Manager without losing its data.

### `--listen-addr value`

The node listens for inbound Swarm manager traffic on this address. The default is to listen on
0.0.0.0:2377. It is also possible to specify a network interface to listen on that interface's
address; for example `--listen-addr eth0:2377`.

Specifying a port is optional. If the value is a bare IP address, hostname, or interface
name, the default port 2377 will be used.

### `--advertise-addr value`

This flag specifies the address that will be advertised to other members of the
swarm for API access and overlay networking. If unspecified, Docker will check
if the system has a single IP address, and use that IP address with with the
listening port (see `--listen-addr`). If the system has multiple IP addresses,
`--advertise-addr` must be specified so that the correct address is chosen for
inter-manager communication and overlay networking.

It is also possible to specify a network interface to advertise that interface's address;
for example `--advertise-addr eth0:2377`.

Specifying a port is optional. If the value is a bare IP address, hostname, or interface
name, the default port 2377 will be used.

### `--task-history-limit`

This flag sets up task history retention limit.

## Related information

* [swarm join](swarm_join.md)
* [swarm leave](swarm_leave.md)
* [swarm update](swarm_update.md)
* [swarm join-token](swarm_join_token.md)
* [node rm](node_rm.md)
