docs/reference/commandline/volume_ls.md, before:

---
title: "volume ls"
description: "The volume ls command description and usage"
keywords: "volume, list"
---

<!-- This file is maintained within the docker/docker Github
     repository at https://github.com/docker/docker/. Make all
     pull requests against that repo. If you see this file in
     another repository, consider it read-only there, as it will
     periodically be overwritten by the definitive file. Pull
     requests which include edits to this file in other repositories
     will be rejected.
-->

# volume ls

```markdown
Usage:  docker volume ls [OPTIONS]

List volumes

Aliases:
  ls, list

Options:
  -f, --filter value   Provide filter values (e.g. 'dangling=true') (default [])
                       - dangling=<boolean> a volume if referenced or not
                       - driver=<string> a volume's driver name
                       - label=<key> or label=<key>=<value>
                       - name=<string> a volume's name
      --format string  Pretty-print volumes using a Go template
      --help           Print usage
  -q, --quiet          Only display volume names
```

## Description

List all the volumes known to Docker. You can filter using the `-f` or
`--filter` flag. Refer to the [filtering](#filtering) section for more
information about available filter options.

## Examples

### Create a volume
```bash
$ docker volume create rosemary

rosemary

$ docker volume create tyler

tyler

$ docker volume ls

DRIVER              VOLUME NAME
local               rosemary
local               tyler
```

### Filtering

The filtering flag (`-f` or `--filter`) format is of "key=value". If there is more
than one filter, then pass multiple flags (e.g., `--filter "foo=bar" --filter "bif=baz"`)

The currently supported filters are:

* dangling (boolean - true or false, 0 or 1)
* driver (a volume driver's name)
* label (`label=<key>` or `label=<key>=<value>`)
* name (a volume's name)

#### dangling

The `dangling` filter matches on all volumes not referenced by any containers

```bash
$ docker run -d  -v tyler:/tmpwork  busybox

f86a7dd02898067079c99ceacd810149060a70528eff3754d0b0f1a93bd0af18
$ docker volume ls -f dangling=true
DRIVER              VOLUME NAME
local               rosemary
```

#### driver

The `driver` filter matches volumes based on their driver.

The following example matches volumes that are created with the `local` driver:

```bash
$ docker volume ls -f driver=local

DRIVER              VOLUME NAME
local               rosemary
local               tyler
```

#### label

The `label` filter matches volumes based on the presence of a `label` alone or
a `label` and a value.

First, let's create some volumes to illustrate this;

```bash
$ docker volume create the-doctor --label is-timelord=yes

the-doctor
$ docker volume create daleks --label is-timelord=no

daleks
```

The following example filter matches volumes with the `is-timelord` label
regardless of its value.

```bash
$ docker volume ls --filter label=is-timelord

DRIVER              VOLUME NAME
local               daleks
local               the-doctor
```

As the above example demonstrates, both volumes with `is-timelord=yes`, and
`is-timelord=no` are returned.

Filtering on both `key` *and* `value` of the label, produces the expected result:

```bash
$ docker volume ls --filter label=is-timelord=yes

DRIVER              VOLUME NAME
local               the-doctor
```

Specifying multiple label filter produces an "and" search; all conditions
should be met;

```bash
$ docker volume ls --filter label=is-timelord=yes --filter label=is-timelord=no

DRIVER              VOLUME NAME
```

#### name

The `name` filter matches on all or part of a volume's name.

The following filter matches all volumes with a name containing the `rose` string.

```bash
$ docker volume ls -f name=rose

DRIVER              VOLUME NAME
local               rosemary
```

### Formatting

The formatting options (`--format`) pretty-prints volumes output
using a Go template.

Valid placeholders for the Go template are listed below:

Placeholder   | Description
--------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
`.Name`       | Network name
`.Driver`     | Network driver
`.Scope`      | Network scope (local, global)
`.Mountpoint` | Whether the network is internal or not.
`.Labels`     | All labels assigned to the volume.
`.Label`      | Value of a specific label for this volume. For example `{{.Label "project.version"}}`

When using the `--format` option, the `volume ls` command will either
output the data exactly as the template declares or, when using the
`table` directive, includes column headers as well.

The following example uses a template without headers and outputs the
`Name` and `Driver` entries separated by a colon for all volumes:

```bash
$ docker volume ls --format "{{.Name}}: {{.Driver}}"

vol1: local
vol2: local
vol3: local
```

## Related commands

* [volume create](volume_create.md)
* [volume inspect](volume_inspect.md)
* [volume rm](volume_rm.md)
* [volume prune](volume_prune.md)
* [Understand Data Volumes](https://docs.docker.com/engine/tutorials/dockervolumes/)

Commit message:

fixed word network on volume_ls.md
Signed-off-by: Hernan Garcia <hernandanielg@gmail.com>

docs/reference/commandline/volume_ls.md, after:

---
title: "volume ls"
description: "The volume ls command description and usage"
keywords: "volume, list"
---

<!-- This file is maintained within the docker/docker Github
     repository at https://github.com/docker/docker/. Make all
     pull requests against that repo. If you see this file in
     another repository, consider it read-only there, as it will
     periodically be overwritten by the definitive file. Pull
     requests which include edits to this file in other repositories
     will be rejected.
-->

# volume ls

```markdown
Usage:  docker volume ls [OPTIONS]

List volumes

Aliases:
  ls, list

Options:
  -f, --filter value   Provide filter values (e.g. 'dangling=true') (default [])
                       - dangling=<boolean> a volume if referenced or not
                       - driver=<string> a volume's driver name
                       - label=<key> or label=<key>=<value>
                       - name=<string> a volume's name
      --format string  Pretty-print volumes using a Go template
      --help           Print usage
  -q, --quiet          Only display volume names
```

## Description

List all the volumes known to Docker. You can filter using the `-f` or
`--filter` flag. Refer to the [filtering](#filtering) section for more
information about available filter options.

## Examples

### Create a volume
```bash
$ docker volume create rosemary

rosemary

$ docker volume create tyler

tyler

$ docker volume ls

DRIVER              VOLUME NAME
local               rosemary
local               tyler
```

### Filtering

The filtering flag (`-f` or `--filter`) format is of "key=value". If there is more
than one filter, then pass multiple flags (e.g., `--filter "foo=bar" --filter "bif=baz"`)

The currently supported filters are:

* dangling (boolean - true or false, 0 or 1)
* driver (a volume driver's name)
* label (`label=<key>` or `label=<key>=<value>`)
* name (a volume's name)

#### dangling

The `dangling` filter matches on all volumes not referenced by any containers

```bash
$ docker run -d  -v tyler:/tmpwork  busybox

f86a7dd02898067079c99ceacd810149060a70528eff3754d0b0f1a93bd0af18
$ docker volume ls -f dangling=true
DRIVER              VOLUME NAME
local               rosemary
```

#### driver

The `driver` filter matches volumes based on their driver.

The following example matches volumes that are created with the `local` driver:

```bash
$ docker volume ls -f driver=local

DRIVER              VOLUME NAME
local               rosemary
local               tyler
```

#### label

The `label` filter matches volumes based on the presence of a `label` alone or
a `label` and a value.

First, let's create some volumes to illustrate this;

```bash
$ docker volume create the-doctor --label is-timelord=yes

the-doctor
$ docker volume create daleks --label is-timelord=no

daleks
```

The following example filter matches volumes with the `is-timelord` label
regardless of its value.

```bash
$ docker volume ls --filter label=is-timelord

DRIVER              VOLUME NAME
local               daleks
local               the-doctor
```

As the above example demonstrates, both volumes with `is-timelord=yes`, and
`is-timelord=no` are returned.

Filtering on both `key` *and* `value` of the label, produces the expected result:

```bash
$ docker volume ls --filter label=is-timelord=yes

DRIVER              VOLUME NAME
local               the-doctor
```

Specifying multiple label filter produces an "and" search; all conditions
should be met;

```bash
$ docker volume ls --filter label=is-timelord=yes --filter label=is-timelord=no

DRIVER              VOLUME NAME
```

#### name

The `name` filter matches on all or part of a volume's name.

The following filter matches all volumes with a name containing the `rose` string.

```bash
$ docker volume ls -f name=rose

DRIVER              VOLUME NAME
local               rosemary
```

### Formatting

The formatting options (`--format`) pretty-prints volumes output
using a Go template.

Valid placeholders for the Go template are listed below:

Placeholder   | Description
--------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
`.Name`       | Volume name
`.Driver`     | Volume driver
`.Scope`      | Volume scope (local, global)
`.Mountpoint` | The mount point of the volume on the host
`.Labels`     | All labels assigned to the volume
`.Label`      | Value of a specific label for this volume. For example `{{.Label "project.version"}}`

When using the `--format` option, the `volume ls` command will either
output the data exactly as the template declares or, when using the
`table` directive, includes column headers as well.

The following example uses a template without headers and outputs the
`Name` and `Driver` entries separated by a colon for all volumes:

```bash
$ docker volume ls --format "{{.Name}}: {{.Driver}}"

vol1: local
vol2: local
vol3: local
```

## Related commands

* [volume create](volume_create.md)
* [volume inspect](volume_inspect.md)
* [volume rm](volume_rm.md)
* [volume prune](volume_prune.md)
* [Understand Data Volumes](https://docs.docker.com/engine/tutorials/dockervolumes/)
